the World Health Organization says
Israel has agreed to a series of limited
pauses in fighting in the Gaza Strip to
allow a polio vaccination campaign to go
ahead the militant group Hamas has also
agreed to the plan who officials say
that more than a million doses of the
vaccine have already been delivered to
Gaza and more are on the way health
workers hope to treat more than 600,000
children are starting on Sunday the war
in Gaza disrupted routine vaccinations
and destroyed medical facilities
allowing polio to
return I'm joined Now by Sam Rose he is
in Gaza he's deputy director of the
agency for Palestinians known as unra
unra is also in charge of the polio
vaccination campaign Sam it's good to
have you with us the goal of course
beginning Sunday is to vaccinate more
than what half a million children under
the age of of 10 talk to me about the
logistics here I mean how is it even
possible in a place where next to no one
is living in a place that they call
home absolutely thanks for having me on
look it's very very difficult in the
same way that doing anything right now
in Gaza is difficult it's been difficult
to get the vaccines in they are now in
it's difficult to to move them around
we've only just uh heard last night that
the pauses that we've been calling for
for so long have now been agreed to we
welcome them and we've got to go through
detailed detailed planning and unra will
be administering about half of those
vaccines to half of the children we'll
be doing it in our health clinics that's
what we would normally do in in any
given year and last year we vaccinated
99% of of children but most people now
aren't where they were when we were
doing those vaccinations which is why
the outbreak has broken out or one
reason for it so we'll be vaccinating
some people in our clinics but otherwise
in Mobile Health points that we've set
up in tens of of schools that are
functioning as shelters and then we'll
be going tent to tent with our monitors
with our vaccinators with our
registration clerks to to to to
vaccinate the the children like you said
all children under 10 need to receive
two doses of the vaccine Sam talk to me
about how this was even able to happen
the fact that we've seen polio um emerge
in Gaza I mean most people watching
would assume that polio has has been
eradicated
completely absolutely and it was
eradicated from Gaza there have been no
cases of polio in Gaza for the past 25
years and this outbreak is a direct
result of the conflict and the the the
the kind of multiple interrelated
elements of the conflict uh in terms of
the decimation of the health sector
hospitals health clinics that have
affected our ability to provide vaccine
coverage as we would normally do it's a
consequence of the bombardments of the
destruction of homes of infrastructure
the fact that so many people are on the
move and and and now living next to you
know piles of sewage on on one side and
mountains of of rubble on the other it's
a consequence of the malnutrition as
your your report said and it's a
consequence of of of immune systems
being so suppressed by what people and
in this case children have had to go
through on a daily daily basis in fear
of their lives for the last nearly 11
months now I know in some places around
the world there is this reticence among
parents to have their children um
vaccinated for for anything Ian do you
expect to see any of that there in Gaza
I mean untrusting
parents I mean misinformation is a is a
feature of our lives uh the these days
but look what I can say is that
vaccination coverage in Gaza has always
been excellent like I said the
eradication of communicable diseases
until until now largely because of the
uh the the solid health system that we
have in place including unra which is
the largest primary health care provider
in the Gaza Street we as unra are very
much accepted embedded within those
communities so there's a high degree of
trust in health workers there's a high
degree of trust in UNR staff and in the
vaccinators from our other partners who
will be working on it so we are working
closely with Community leaders through
mosques through social media to get the
message out we're confident that any
misinformation that that exists will
we'll be able to
counter Sam rose with the UN Agency for
Palestinian refugees Sam we appreciate
you taking the time to talk with this
you're doing some valuable work
beginning this weekend thank you